The President:
For years, the government
has spent more money than
it takes in.
The result is a lot of debt on
our nation's credit card --
debt that unless we act
will weaken our economy,
cause higher interest
rates for families,
and force us to scale
back things like education
and Medicare.
Now, folks in Washington
like to blame one another for
this problem.
But the truth is, neither
party is blameless.
And both parties have a
responsibility to do something
about it.
Every day, families are figuring
out how stretch their paychecks
-- struggling to cut what they
can't afford so they can pay for
what's really important.
It's time for Washington
to do the same thing.
But for that to happen, it means
that Democrats and Republicans
have to work together.
It means we need to put aside
our differences to do what's
right for the country.
Everyone is going to have
to be willing to compromise.
Otherwise, we'll never
get anything done.
That's why we need a balanced
approach to cutting the deficit.
We need an approach that goes
after waste in the budget and
gets rid of pet projects that
cost billions of dollars.
We need an approach that makes
some serious cuts to worthy
programs -- cuts I wouldn't
make under normal circumstances.
And we need an approach that
asks everybody to do their part.
So that means, yes, we have
to make serious budget cuts;
but that it's not right to ask
middle class families to pay
more for college before we ask
the biggest corporations to pay
their fair share of taxes.
It means that before we
stop funding clean energy,
we should ask oil companies and
corporate jet owners to give up
the tax breaks that other
companies don't get.
Before we cut medical research,
we should ask hedge fund
managers to stop paying
taxes at a lower rate than
their secretaries.
Before we ask seniors to
pay more for Medicare,
we should ask the wealthiest
taxpayers to give up tax breaks
we simply can't afford
under these circumstances.
That's the heart of this
approach: serious cuts,
balanced by some new revenues.
And it's been the position of
every Democratic and Republican
leader who has worked
to reduce the deficit,
from Bill Clinton
to Ronald Reagan.
In fact, earlier this week, one
of the most conservative members
of the Senate, Tom Coburn,
announced his support for a
balanced, bipartisan
plan that shows promise.
And then a funny thing happened.
He received a round
of applause --
from a group of Republican
and Democratic senators.
That's a rare event
in Washington.
So there will be plenty of
haggling over the details in the
days ahead.
But this debate boils
down to a simple choice.
We can come together for the
good of the country and reach a
compromise; we can strengthen
our economy and leave for our
children a more secure future.
Or we can issue insults and
demands and ultimatums at each
other, withdraw to
our partisan corners,
and achieve nothing.
Well, we know the
right thing to do.
And we know what the American
people expect us to do.